After playing around with chartAuthoring, preparing to make my own Graphics Component, I decided I was still quite shakey on the context-dependent usages in IoC and best practices for how to bootstrap a set of components. The framework is beginning to make sense, at least insofar as the framework of creating components/grades is concerned. Still uncertain about whether a component and a grade is any different. A grade seems like a re-usable model for a component? Also, still feeling uncertain about how templating works. Specifically the difference between using `selectors` and loading templates.

Here is a list of questions I'll be asking in my meeting tomorrow before trying to continue with my Representation Component:

- Registering the component's namespace. When to use it? [eg, https://github.com/fluid-project/chartAuthoring/blob/master/src/js/transformations.js ]. It seems like it is mostly useful for creating simple helper-type components that aren't part of your main component tree.
- Use of "container" a lot without css ref, but some kind of IoC ref. [EG, https://github.com/fluid-project/chartAuthoring/blob/master/src/js/transformations.js] How should one use this keyword in infusion? Does it automatically refer to the container div of the given component; if so, where are you meant to specify it?
- Would highly recommend a full example at bottom, here: http://docs.fluidproject.org/infusion/development/UnderstandingInfusionComponents.html
- So `styles` for a ViewComponent is only used as a sort of documentation tool?
- ? Example of crucial documentation that's confusing? --> "Note that as a result of growing power in the IoC framework to perform most actions "in place" with respect to an existing component in its original location without having to inject it elsewhere."
- Renderer vs. View components -- which should I be using? I feel like I remember hearing that you're phasing out renderer components?
- This is a bad set of examples: http://docs.fluidproject.org/infusion/development/SubcomponentDeclaration.html#injected-subcomponent-declaration
- Do you recommend using dynamic components for the Fields Component in the Data Dashboard spec?
- Can't find good info on templates... `templateLoader`
- In the chartAuthoring demo component, how does `initialData` get taken from the demo component and rendered? Can't follow this trail and its crucial to understanding everything...
