# June 28, 2016

Currently am in the process of getting the model infrastructure between components ready. My questions this week regard how a few of the fluid internals work, some best practices in developing with fluid, and issues I'm facing as I prototype. I'll offer them up accordingly:

## Fluid Internals

1. When you register a listener, does the function it calls by default pass the component that is listening for the event? I'm noticing that often in examples functions take in things like:  `myListenerTrigger = function (that) {}` without the listener explicitly passing an argument. However, you can also write listeners that have explicit functions with declared arguments. I'm guessing you only do that when you're writing a "library-like" component where you don't know which component will use listeners from that grade. Is that right?
2. How does `fluid.each()` work normally? I thought it was similar to `jQuery.each()` however, how does [this](https://github.com/fluid-project/chartAuthoring/blob/master/src/js/valueBinding.js#L33) work given that I don't see other components in chart authoring with a bindings block that has explicit modelPath and selector options. I think I don't understand bindings blocks because `.each()` should be fairly standard.

## Fluid Best Practices

1. Is it recommended to have selectors and declared components use the same key names? Often you're selectors correspond to containers of components, but I'm not sure if this is bad for namespacing?
2. In which scopes should sub-components be declared? I take it there is a difference between writing a parent declaration meant to wrap up a few components vs. defining a fresh grade for a component. In my case, I'm wondering if my graph canvas (ie, Representation Component) which needs several sub-components should have those sub-components declared in the file that creates the grade or only in the parent declaration. For an example look at `src/js/dataDashboard.js` vs. 'src/js/graphCanvas'. The graphCanvas component will have sub components, but I'm unsure whether I should be declaring that relationship in dataDashboard or not?

## Prototyping

1. Given that I'm ready to go ahead and kick off milestone 1 since I'm actually starting to do far more than that milestone, I'm wondering if I can expect components to actually render even if I haven't used all the selectors I've defined yet? That is, I've started spec-ing components for more advanced usage, but if I want to do a POC to show stuff works, do I need to comment out all unused functionality such as selectors that haven't been created yet or will things render even if some stuff isn't ready? This is a question that would help me realize best prototyping practices since often you want to stop at a certain point and see what's working. Trying to identify that stopping point right now.
2. For my Representation Component, if I need both a graph type selection and some parsed data in order to generate it, what is the best event system to verify this? Should I have two events that each check if the other has fired yet? Or is there a better way to handle this logical flow?
3. We discussed an issue the other week about field selections for graphing. The problem was how to decide whether a user wants to graph all the rows for a particular column or whether they want to pluck certain values from within a column. I was thinking I'd just make two buttons one that read "rows" the other "columns" and use tool tips and instructions to explain to users that when "rows" is selected you will be binding all rows for a particular column, where as when "column" is selected you should first filter on a column then select the set of values you want to apply to the graph. I think this is close to the solution, but it needs work..