# 7/19/2016

Over the past two weeks, I've both finished making the basic working demonstration of the d3 component rendering a line graph on live data. Also, I've done a bunch of research on Vega to determine whether it's an appropriate integration for completing this project. 

You can find the information for running the demo in the README.md

## Vega Intro

Vega is a declarative JSON format for standardizing visualization designs to simplify creating and sharing complicated data-driven graphics. In relation to our project of wanting to make a data dashboard for people to have a quick and accessible way to create visualizations, it seems using Vega would take a lot of overhead off of the project in terms of needing to support many different types of visualizations. With the Vega spec, the different types of visualizations are done, and the work would become a) creating Fluid components that render Vega specs, b) creating usable widgets to interact with the internal Vega representation, and c) figuring out how to sonify these visualizations.

The Vega team has already made a project that contains _some_ similar aspects to ours:

[Vega Voyager](https://vega.github.io/voyager/)

### Using Vega with Fluid

If we were to integrate Vega into our project, I'd push to start by using their parser as an embedded dependency in our app. They explain their HTML runtime environment [here](https://github.com/vega/vega/wiki/Runtime). This works very much as one would imagine where you need d3 and Vega both imported in script tags and then you can attach your visualization to a particular DOM element then use an `.update()` method to make changes to that visualization.

The second option we have for later, more sophisticated, integration tactics is using their headless, server-side workflow. [This](https://github.com/vega/vega/wiki/Headless-Mode) allows us to parse Vega specs on the backend and then dump them out over the server as raw SVG or PNG. 

### Programmatic Value

Vega already has much of the functionality we are creating built in to its parser. The fact tha everything has to be shoved through a parser is discomforting when considering a more systematic integration of Fluid with Vega, but is not a huge concern for a small app like this project.

However, Vega makes it easy to specify a variety of [visualizations](https://github.com/vega/vega/wiki/Visualization), has great support for parsing [data](https://github.com/vega/vega/wiki/Data), and even supports doing [transformations](https://github.com/vega/vega/wiki/Data-Transforms). Further, they stick to a very nice RFP style by implementing [signals](https://github.com/vega/vega/wiki/Signals) which allow you to make interactive rules for transforming your visualization on particular events. Each of these aspects would have required custom fluid grades or would have made for a very heavy set of fluid components that needed to take care of generalizing issues around data syncing and interaction events.

### Concerns

The basic two concerns are:

1. Whether or not the Vega parser is creating too much of a gulf between Fluid's manipulation of the JSON spec and the actual visualization. This somewhat ruins functional parity between the two systems since Vega demands that it takes care of all things it _can_. 
2. How hard will sonification become? If there's a giant uninterpretable layer between the spec and the element it creates, is it going to be a headache to reach in and find the DOM elements and data that needs to be sonified.

